Zowe SDK Overview and Using (#1381)
zowe/docs-site: docs/user-guide/sdks-using.md

# Using Zowe SDKs

Leverage the Zowe Client Software Development Kits (SDKs) to build client applications and scripts that interface with the mainframe.

The SDKs include programmatic APIs, each of which performs a particular mainframe task. For example, one API package provides the ability to upload and download z/OS data sets. You can leverage that package to rapidly build a client application that interacts with data sets.

The following SDKs are available.
- Zowe Node.js Client SDK
- Zowe Python Client SDK

## API documentation

For details about the available API endpoints, browse or download the [API Reference documentation](https://docs.zowe.org/stable/#zowe-client-sdk-reference-guides).

## Software requirements

### Node.js

If you install Node SDK packages from the online registry, the required dependencies are installed automatically.

> If you download Node SDK packages from Zowe.org, the folder contains dependencies that you must install manually. Extract the TGZ files from the folder, copy the files to your project, and issue the following command for each dependency:

Reviewer: Would it make more sense for the last to read `issue the following commands to install the dependencies`? There are two commands listed, and they each install a dependency.

Author: Totally - fixing.

```javascript
import { Download } from "@zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk";

const session = new Session({
    hostname: '<host address>',
    user: '<zosmf user>',
    password: '<zosmf password>'
});
```

To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide the profile name when you create the object:

```javascript
import { CliProfileManager } from "@zowe/imperative";
import { Submit } from "@zowe/zos-jobs-for-zowe-sdk";

const profileManager = new CliProfileManager({
  	profileRootDirectory: require("path").join(require("os").homedir(), ".zowe", "profiles"),
  	type: "zosmf"
});
const profile = (await profileManager.load({ loadDefault: true })).profile;
```

**Python Example**

After you install the package in your project,  import the class for the required sub-package (i.e `Console` class for z/OS Console commands). Create a dictionary to handle communication with z/OSMF:

```python
from zowe.zos_console_for_zowe_sdk import Console

connection = {
    "host_url": "'<host address>'",
    "user": "<user>",
    "password": "<password>",

}
my_console = Console(connection)

> ## API documentation

Reviewer 2: Need triple ticks (`) in order to close the python code block, otherwise the other headers will be included in the code block

Reviewer 3: That's right @zFernand0, thanks for catching that!

# Using Zowe SDKs

Learn about using the Zowe Client Software Development Kits (SDKs). The SDKs enable you to build client applications and scripts that interface with the mainframe.

The SDKs include programamatic APIs, each of which performs a particular mainframe task. For example, one API package provides the ability to upload and download z/OS data sets. You can leverage that package to rapidly build a client application that interacts with data sets.

The following SDKs are available.
- Zowe Node Client SDK
- Zowe Python Client SDK

## Software requirements

Before you use the Python SDK, install the following software:

<!-- These are listed in the python repo. I assume that the end user needs to install them prior to calling the APIs? Do they install them into their project? -->

> - [requests-2.22](https://github.com/psf/requests)
> - [keyring](https://github.com/jaraco/keyring)
> - [pyyaml](https://github.com/yaml/pyyaml)
> 

Reviewer 3: I would include urllib3 as a prereq for the Python SDK

```suggestion
- [requests-2.22](https://github.com/psf/requests)
- [keyring](https://github.com/jaraco/keyring)
- [pyyaml](https://github.com/yaml/pyyaml)
- [urllib3](https://github.com/urllib3/urllib3)
```

## Getting started

To get started, download and import the SDK packages to your project. Alternatively, you can pull the packages from an online registry.

### Install SDK from local package

Download and install the packages.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Navigate to [Zowe.org Downloads](https://www.zowe.org/download.html). Select your desired programming language in the **Zowe Client SDKs** section.

   The SDK is downloaded to your computer.

> 2. Open the SDK folder, which contains packages for each function. Copy each file that you want to install and paste them into your project directory.

Reviewer 2: It's likely that the packages will be inside a zip file 😋 
So, should we say unzip or do we assume users know that?

Author: You know what they say happens when you assume.... lol. I took your suggestion.

3. In a command-line window, navigate to your project directory. Issue one of the following commands:

   - To install a Node package: `npm install <fileName>.tgz`
   - To install a Python package: `pip install <fileName>.whl`

   The packages are installed and you can call the APIs from within your project.

### Install SDK from online registry

Define the packages as dependencies in your project and pull them from an online registry.

**Follow these steps:**

1. In command-line window, navigate to your project directory. Issue the following command to install a package from the registry:

   - To import a Node package: `npm install <sdkPackageName>`
   - To import a Python package: `pip install <sdkPackageName>`

>     The package is installed and defined in your `package.json` or `requirements.txt` file.

Reviewer 3: For the Python SDK I would replace `requirements.txt` with `setup.py`

```suggestion
    The package is installed and defined in your `package.json` or `setup.py` file.
```

2. **(Optional)** You might want to automatically update the SDK version when updates become available, or you might want to prevent automatic updates. Use [npm semver](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#x-ranges-12x-1x-12-) to define the versioning scheme.

    The packages are installed and you can call the APIs from within your project.

## Using

The following examples demonstrate how to call the API endpoints:

**Node Example:**

> After you install the package in your project, create a session object to handle communicate with z/OSMF. This example shows how to import the z/OS Files APIs and define your connection details in the session object:

Reviewer 2: `create a session object to handle communicate with z/OSMF` ?
`communication` perhaps?

```javascript
import { Download } from "@zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk";

const session = new Session({
    hostname: '<host address>',
    user: '<zosmf user>',
    password: '<zosmf password>'
});
```

To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide the profile name when you create the object:

```javascript
import { CliProfileManager } from "@zowe/imperative";
import { Submit } from "@zowe/zos-jobs-for-zowe-sdk";

const profileManager = new CliProfileManager({
  	profileRootDirectory: require("path").join(require("os").homedir(), ".zowe", "profiles"),
  	type: "zosmf"
});
const profile = (await profileManager.load({ loadDefault: true })).profile;
```

**Python Example**

> After you install the package in your project,  import the `ZoweSDK` class. Create an object to handle communication with z/OSMF:
> 
> ```python
> from zowe_sdk import ZoweSDK
> 
> z = ZoweSDK(zosmf_host='<host address>', zosmf_user='<zosmf user>', zosmf_password='<zosmf password>')
> ```
> 
> To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide a profile name when you create the object:
> 
> ```python
> from zowe_sdk import ZoweSDK
> z = ZoweSDK(zosmf_profile='<profile name>')
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you install the package in your project,  import the class for the required sub-package (i.e `Console` class for z/OS Console commands). Create a dictionary to handle communication with z/OSMF:

```python
from zowe.zos_console_for_zowe_sdk import Console

connection = {
    "host_url": "'<host address>'",
    "user": "<user>",
    "password": "<password>",

}
my_console = Console(connection)
```

To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide a profile name when you create the object:

```python
from zowe.zos_console_for_zowe_sdk import Console

connection = {
    "plugin_profile": "<profile name>"
}
my_console = Console(connection)
```
```

## API documentation

Browse or download the [API Reference documentation](https://docs.zowe.org/stable/#zowe-client-sdk-reference-guides) for details about each endpoint.

For more information about the Node SDK, including usage examples, see the documentation in the [Node SDK Readme](https://github.com/zowe/zowe-cli#using-the-zowe-node-apis).

> For more information about the Python SDK, including usage examples see the [Python SDK Readme](https://github.com/zowe/zowe-client-python-sdk#zowe-python-client-sdk).

Reviewer 3: Including the link to the Read The Docs documentation reposiroty
```suggestion
For more information about the Python SDK, including usage examples see the [Python SDK ReadTheDocs](https://zowe-client-python-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
```

# Using Zowe SDKs

Learn about using the Zowe Client Software Development Kits (SDKs). The SDKs enable you to build client applications and scripts that interface with the mainframe.

The SDKs include programamatic APIs, each of which performs a particular mainframe task. For example, one API package provides the ability to upload and download z/OS data sets. You can leverage that package to rapidly build a client application that interacts with data sets.

The following SDKs are available.
- Zowe Node Client SDK
- Zowe Python Client SDK

## Software requirements

Before you use the Python SDK, install the following software:

<!-- These are listed in the python repo. I assume that the end user needs to install them prior to calling the APIs? Do they install them into their project? -->

- [requests-2.22](https://github.com/psf/requests)
- [keyring](https://github.com/jaraco/keyring)
- [pyyaml](https://github.com/yaml/pyyaml)

> - [urllib3](https://github.com/urllib3/urllib3)

Author: Not _totally_ confident in my latest commit, but took a shot at it. Can you take a look there and Step 3 in the "Install from local package" section where I just send them back up to Software Requirements where it's described in more detail. 

We can add more detail if I missed something. 

I think if we did list the dependencies in the doc here, we're setting ourselves up to maintain the list here too, so I agree with not listing them.

> - [urllib3](https://github.com/urllib3/urllib3)

Reviewer 4: I like how the Python install instructions are written now, and agree it probably makes sense not to list the deps in doc 🙂

   - To install a Node package: `npm install <packageName>.tgz`
   - To install a Python package: `pip install <packageName>.whl`

    *where* `<packageName>` is the name of the package that you want to install, such as `zos-files-for-zowe-sdk`.

    The packages are installed and you can call the APIs from within your project.

### Install SDK from online registry

Define the packages as dependencies in your project and pull them from an online registry.

**Follow these steps:**

1. **(Node SDK only)** Install required dependencies for the Node SDK. In a command-line window, navigate to your project directory and issue the following commands:
npm install @zowe/core-for-zowe-sdk and npm install @zowe/imperative
    ```
    npm install @zowe/core-for-zowe-sdk
    ```

    ```
    npm install @zowe/imperative
    ```

2. In command-line window, navigate to your project directory. Issue the following command to install a package from the registry:

   - To import a Node package: `npm install <PackageName>`
   - To import a Python package: `pip install <PackageName>`

   *where* `<packageName>` is the name of the package that you want to install, such as `zos-files-for-zowe-sdk`.

>     The package is installed and is defined in your `package.json` or `setup.py` file.

Author: What is the result of a pip command? (I'm not very familiar)

My intention was to set them up to know where they can adjust the version manually in the future (described in the following step). Can we say "The package is installed in your project" and leave it at that for Python? 

We could assume if they're programming an app in Python, they already know the basics about how the packages work...

>     The package is installed and is defined in your `package.json` or `setup.py` file.

Reviewer 4: The result of a pip command is similar to a global NPM install - the package is not installed in your project, but rather into a single location (e.g., probably in AppData on Windows). 

For the paragraph about adjusting the version in the following step, Python users can choose to do so if they want by providing specific versions or version ranges in a `requirements.txt` file checked in to their project: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#example-requirements-file

    The packages are installed and you can call the APIs from within your project.

## Using

The following examples demonstrate how to call the API endpoints:

**Node Example:**

After you install the package in your project, create a session object to handle communication with z/OSMF. This example shows how to import the z/OS Files APIs and define your connection details in the session object:

```javascript
import { Download } from "@zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk";

const session = new Session({
    hostname: '<host address>',
    user: '<zosmf user>',
    password: '<zosmf password>'
});
```

To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide the profile name when you create the object:

```javascript
import { CliProfileManager } from "@zowe/imperative";
import { Submit } from "@zowe/zos-jobs-for-zowe-sdk";

const profileManager = new CliProfileManager({
  	profileRootDirectory: require("path").join(require("os").homedir(), ".zowe", "profiles"),
  	type: "zosmf"
});
const profile = (await profileManager.load({ loadDefault: true })).profile;

> ```

Reviewer: If you don't want base profile support, just remove `, true` from the end of the above code block. 😀

### Install SDK from local package

Download and install the packages.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Navigate to [Zowe.org Downloads](https://www.zowe.org/download.html). Select your desired programming language in the **Zowe Client SDKs** section.

   The SDK is downloaded to your computer.

2. Unzip the SDK folder, which contains the packages for each set of functionality (such as z/OS Jobs). Copy each file that you want to install and paste them into your project directory.

3. Install required dependencies, which are included in the bundle. See [Software requirements](#software-requirements) above for more information.

3. In a command-line window, navigate to your project directory. Issue *one* of the following commands.

   - To install a Node.js package: `npm install <packageName>.tgz`
   - To install a Python package: `pip install <packageName>.whl`

    *where* `<packageName>` is the name of the package that you want to install, such as `zos-files-for-zowe-sdk`.

    The packages are installed and you can call the APIs from within your project.

### Install SDK from online registry

> Define the packages as dependencies in your project and pull them from the online npm registry.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be more generic to account for PyPi?

# Using Zowe SDKs

Learn about using the Zowe Client Software Development Kits (SDKs). The SDKs enable you to build client applications and scripts that interface with the mainframe.

> The SDKs include programamatic APIs, each of which performs a particular mainframe task. For example, one API package provides the ability to upload and download z/OS data sets. You can leverage that package to rapidly build a client application that interacts with data sets.

Reviewer 5: "programamatic" -> "programmatic"

The following SDKs are available.
- Zowe Node Client SDK

> - Zowe Python Client SDK

Reviewer 5: Same question as above, should Swift SDK be mentioned?

## Getting started

To get started with the SDKs, navigate to [Zowe.org Downloads](https://www.zowe.org/download.html) and choose a programming language from the **Zowe Client SDKs** section. The package is downloaded to your computer.

<!--TODO List the artifacts that the user can expect to find in the package after downloading (files, readmes, etc..) -->

> After you download an SDK, import the `ZoweSDK` class into your project. Create an object to handle requests to and from the mainframe.

Reviewer 5: This line should be moved inside the Python example section.

For the Node SDK, there isn't a "ZoweSDK" class, and what you need to import depends on what you want to use (e.g., `import { Download } from "@zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk"` or `import { Submit } from "@zowe/zos-jobs-for-zowe-sdk"`).

Author: Is there some step that we're missing, in between the user clicking "download" on Zowe.org and being able to use that` import { } from @zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk` in their code? 

Do they need to copy the entire SDK folder to a certain directory in the project first? 

I wonder the same for Python.

Reviewer 5: If users download the Zowe SDKs in a bundle from Zowe.org, then they would need to copy the package TGZs to their project where they want to install them so that they can run `npm install <packageName>.tgz`.

I expect that most SDK users will want to install packages directly from the NPM registry into their project, rather than pulling them from Zowe.org, so that they can declare the SDK packages as dependencies in their project's `package.json`.

This is different from the CLI situation, where the CLI and CLI plugins are globally installed and normally not added to a `package.json`. Because of this it doesn't matter whether CLI packages are installed from a local TGZ or the NPM registry.

Author: @tjohnsonBCM Thank you! this comment spurred me to add seperate sections for installing from package vs. registry. I reorganzied it a bit, it's worth another skim to make sure I explained it correctly. 

For installing from registry, I could use help with the exact steps. I left a comment. Appreciate the help.

**Example - Node:**

> <!--TODO What is a basic example for importing Node SDK?-->

Reviewer 5: ```javascript
import { Download } from "@zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk";

const session = new Session({
    hostname: '<host address>',
    user: '<zosmf user>',
    password: '<zosmf password>'
});
```

```
import node sdk example here
```

> <!--TODO Similarly, is there a basic profile example for Node SDK?-->

Reviewer 5: ```javascript
import { CliProfileManager } from "@zowe/imperative";
import { Submit } from "@zowe/zos-jobs-for-zowe-sdk";

const profileManager = new CliProfileManager({
  	profileRootDirectory: require("path").join(require("os").homedir(), ".zowe", "profiles"),
  	type: "zosmf"
});
const profile = (await profileManager.load({ loadDefault: true })).profile;
```

To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide the profile name when you create the object:

```
node sdk profile example here
```

**Example - Python:**

> ```

Reviewer 5: Adding the language name after the triple ticks on first line (e.g. <code>```python</code>) will provide syntax highlighting.

from zowe_sdk import ZoweSDK

z = ZoweSDK(zosmf_host='<host address>', zosmf_user='<zosmf user>', zosmf_password='<zosmf password>')
```

To use a Zowe CLI z/OSMF profile instead of manual authentication, provide the profile name when you create the object:

> ```

Reviewer 5: <code>'''</code> -> <code>```python</code> (see comment above)

from zowe_sdk import ZoweSDK
z = ZoweSDK(zosmf_profile='<profile name>')
```

The SDK is imported into your project and you can begin making API calls.

<!-- TODO question - Do you think that this minimal info is enough to get started, and that from here it's easy enough to find the examples in the readmes? I didn't want to duplicate what's already written in readmes, so I see this page as "tying things together". -->

## API documentation

> Refer to the API Reference documentation for detailed information about each interface. To access the API Reference, <!-- TODO do X Y and Z. Where is this mysterious API reference doc? Hosted on doc site somehow? Local file? -->

Reviewer 5: I believe the API doc will be hosted somewhere. Not sure exactly where yet.

Reviewer 2: After some discussions, we will be adding the API doc to zowe.org soon :yum:

# Using Zowe SDKs

Learn about using the Zowe Client Software Development Kits (SDKs). The SDKs enable you to build client applications and scripts that interface with the mainframe.

The SDKs include programamatic APIs, each of which performs a particular mainframe task. For example, one API package provides the ability to upload and download z/OS data sets. You can leverage that package to rapidly build a client application that interacts with data sets.

The following SDKs are available.
- Zowe Node Client SDK
- Zowe Python Client SDK

## Getting started

To get started with the SDKs, navigate to [Zowe.org Downloads](https://www.zowe.org/download.html) and choose a programming language from the **Zowe Client SDKs** section. The package is downloaded to your computer.

<!--TODO Can we list the artifacts that the user can expect to find in the package after downloading (files, readmes, etc..)? -->

**Example - Node:**

```javascript
import { Download } from "@zowe/zos-files-for-zowe-sdk";

const session = new Session({
    hostname: '<host address>',
    user: '<zosmf user>',
    password: '<zosmf password>'
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: Would be nice to have a brief description here (similar to the python sdk).
Something like: "Create a session object to communicate with z/OS MF" ?

Learn about using the Zowe Client Software Development Kits (SDKs). The SDKs enable you to build client applications and scripts that interface with the mainframe.

The SDKs include programmatic APIs, each of which performs a particular mainframe task. For example, one API package provides the ability to upload and download z/OS data sets. You can leverage that package to rapidly build a client application that interacts with data sets.

The following SDKs are available.
- Zowe Node.js Client SDK
- Zowe Python Client SDK

## Software requirements

### Node.js

> If you download Node SDK packages **from Zowe.org**, the downloaded folder contains dependencies that you must install manually. Copy the files to your project and issue the following commands:

Reviewer 4: Before mentioning "the downloaded folder", should we tell users to extract the TGZ that they've downloaded?

    ```
    npm install core-for-zowe-sdk.tgz
    ```

    ```
    npm install imperative.tgz
    ```

If you install Node SDK packages **from the online registry**, the required dependencies are installed automatically.

### Python

> If you download the Python SDK packages **from Zowe.org**, the downloaded folder contains dependencies that you must install manually. Copy the files to your project and issue the following command for each dependency file:

Reviewer 4: Same question as above about "the downloaded folder"

## Getting started

To get started, download and import the SDK packages into your project. You can also import packages from an online npm registry.

### Install SDK from local package

Download and install a set of offline TGZ files.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Navigate to [Zowe.org Downloads](https://www.zowe.org/download.html) and select a programming language from the **Zowe Client SDKs** section.

   The SDK is downloaded to your computer.

2. Copy each TGZ file that you want to install. Paste the files into your project directory.

> 3. Navigate to your project directory and issue the command `npm install <packageName>.tgz` for each package.

Reviewer 5: These steps are accurate for the Node SDK. For the Python SDK they will be slightly different. The install command is `pip install` instead of `npm install`. The package extension may also be different (".whl" instead of ".tgz"), but unsure about this (perhaps @gcartier94 can provide more insight here).

Author: I reworked this a bit to consider the differences with pip. 

If other SDKs are added that have wildly different install steps, I might need to organize this differently to have spearate procedures for each SDK.

   The packages are installed and ready to use.

### Install SDK from npm registry

Define packages as dependencies in your project and access them from an online npm registry.

**Follow these steps:**

> 1. Issue the following command to import a package from public npm ``.  <!--TODO unsure about this procedure-->

Reviewer 5: "import" -> "install"

> 1. Issue the following command to import a package from public npm ``.  <!--TODO unsure about this procedure-->

Reviewer 5: > `<!--TODO unsure about this procedure-->`

The command to issue is `npm install <sdkPackageName>`.

Or for Python, `pip install <sdkPackageName>`.

> 2. Define the packages in your project `package.json` file. You might want to automatically update the SDK version in your project, or prevent automatic version updates.

Reviewer 5: NPM install will automatically define the package in your project `package.json` file. If users want to prevent automatic version updates, they can either install with the command `npm install --save-exact`, or after a normal install they can edit the package version in `package.json` to change the format from `^X.Y.Z` (the default) to an exact version (`X.Y.Z` without the caret in front).

Author: I decided to just link to semver doc, bc it seems like there could be a lot of scenarios for this.

Reviewer 2: Semver link was probably the right choice. 
That way people can make their educated choices on what works best for them :)

2. Unzip the SDK folder, which contains the packages for each set of functionality (such as z/OS Jobs). Copy each file that you want to install and paste them into your project directory.

> 3. Install required dependecies, which are included in the bundle. See [Software requirements](#software-requirements) above for more information.

Reviewer 4: `dependecies` -> `dependencies`

### Install SDK from online registry

Define the packages as dependencies in your project and pull them from the online npm registry.

**Follow these steps:**

1. In command-line window, navigate to your project directory. Issue the following command to install a package from the registry:

   - To import a Node.js package: `npm install <PackageName>`
   - To import a Python package: `pip install <PackageName>`

   *where* `<packageName>` is the name of the SDK package that you want to install, such as `zos-files-for-zowe-sdk`.

>     The packages are installed and you can call the APIs from within your project. Node packages are defined in `package.json` in your project. Python packages are installed to a location on your computer such as `/Users/AppData`.

Reviewer 4: The location will generally be `$PYTHONPATH/Lib/site-packages`.

Sorry for not being more specific about this before.

2. **(Optional)** You might want to automatically update the SDK version when updates become available, or you might want to prevent automatic updates.

    To define the versioning scheme for Node packages, use [npm semver](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#x-ranges-12x-1x-12-).

>     To define versioning for Python packages, specify versions or version ranges in a `requirements.txt` file checked in to their project. More information, see [pip documentation](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#example-requirements-file)

Reviewer 4: `their project` -> `your project`

**Follow these steps:**

> 1. **(Node.js SDK only)** Install required dependencies for the Node SDK. In a command-line window, navigate to your project directory and issue the following commands:

Reviewer 4: Should step 1 be removed here, or replaced with something more generic? The step to "install required dependencies" seems applicable to both the Node.js and Python SDKs, and is now covered in the Software Requirements section above.

const profile = (await profileManager.load({ loadDefault: true })).profile;
```

**Python Example**

> After you install the package in your project,  import the `ZoweSDK` class. Create an object to handle handle communicate with z/OSMF:

Reviewer 5: Installation instructions for Python SDK could look something like this:

> 1. Issue the following command to import a package from public npm `pip install <sdkPackageName>`.
> 2. Define the packages in your project `requirements.txt` file. You might want to automatically update the SDK version in your project, or prevent automatic version updates.
